OSDOCS-14601 [NETOBSERV-2053] Flowlogs Flp filtering (#93270)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-con_filter-network-flows-at-ingestion.adoc

// * networking/network_observability/configuring-operators.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="network-observability-filter-network-flows-at-ingestion_{context}"]
= Filter network flows at ingestion

You can create filters to reduce the number of generated network flows. Filtering network flows can help reduce the resource usage of the Network Observability components.

There are two different kinds of filters that you can configure:

* eBPF agent filters
* Flowlogs-pipeline filters

[id="ebpf-agent-filters_{context}"]
== eBPF agent filters

eBPF agent filters maximize performance because they take effect at the earliest stage of the network flows collection process.

To configure eBPF agent filters with the Network Observability Operator, see "Filtering eBPF flow data using multiple rules".

[id="flowlogs-pipeline-filters_{context}"]
== Flowlogs-pipeline filters

Flowlogs-pipeline filters provide greater control over traffic selection because they take effect later in the network flows collection process. They are primarily used to improve data storage.

Flowlogs-pipeline filters use a simple query language to filter network flows:

> [source]

Author: Oh good catch! Thanks!

----
(srcnamespace="netobserv" OR (srcnamespace="ingress" AND dstnamespace="netobserv")) AND srckind!="service"
----

The query language uses the following syntax:

Logical boolean operators (not case-sensitive)::
* `and`
* `or`
Comparison operators::
* equals ``=`
* not equals `!=`
* matches regexp `=~`
* not matches regexp `!~`
* less than (or equal) `<` / `<=`
* greater than (or equal) `>` / `>=`
Unary operations::
* field is present: `with(field)`
* field is absent: `without(field)`
Parenthesis-based priority::

> {empty}

Reviewer: This can be put into a table - up to you

You can configure flowlogs-pipeline filters in the `spec.processor.filters` section of the `FlowCollector` resource. For example:

.Example YAML Flowlogs-pipeline filter
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  agent:
  processor:
    filters:
      - query: |
          (SrcK8S_Namespace="netobserv" OR (SrcK8S_Namespace="openshift-ingress" AND DstK8S_Namespace="netobserv"))
        outputTarget: Loki  <1>
        sampling: 10  <2>
----
<1> Sends matching flows to a specific output, such as Loki, Prometheus, or an external system. When omitted, sends to all configured outputs.

> <2> Optional. Applies a sampling ratio to limit the number of matching flows to be stored or exported. For example, a value of 10 means 1 matching flow every 10 is kept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Optional. Applies a sampling ratio to limit the number of matching flows to be stored or exported. For example, if a sampling value is `10`, then 1 matching flow is kept.
```

----

The query language uses the following syntax:

.Query language syntax
[cols="1,3", options="header"]
|===
| Category
| Operators

| Logical boolean operators (not case-sensitive)
| `and`, `or`

| Comparison operators
| `=` (equals), +
`!=` (not equals), +
`=~` (matches regexp), +
`!~` (not matches regexp), +
`<` / `\<=` (less than or equal to), +
`>` / `>=` (greater than or equal to)

| Unary operations
| `with(field)` (field is present), +
`without(field)` (field is absent)

| Parenthesis-based priority
|===

You can configure flowlogs-pipeline filters in the `spec.processor.filters` section of the `FlowCollector` resource. For example:

.Example YAML Flowlogs-pipeline filter
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  agent:
  processor:
    filters:
      - query: |
          (SrcK8S_Namespace="netobserv" OR (SrcK8S_Namespace="openshift-ingress" AND DstK8S_Namespace="netobserv"))
        outputTarget: Loki  <1>
        sampling: 10  <2>
----
<1> Sends matching flows to a specific output, such as Loki, Prometheus, or an external system. When omitted, sends to all configured outputs.

> <2> Optional. Applies a sampling ratio to limit the number of matching flows to be stored or exported. For example, if a sampling value is `10`, then 1 matching flow is kept.

Reviewer 2: hey @gwynnemonahan @xenolinux I'm coming too late, this has been reformulated but I think we've lost the correct meaning? We wanted to say that 1/10th of flows are kept when value=10.

Author: Hey @jotak ,

Thanks for the clarification! I can create a Jira to fix this.
